>> Sean: And so really that,
I just wanna talk about why.
So, I don't think I really have a great
document on our Github yet, on our docs.
Why Webpack?
What is it solving?
And to really understand that you
kinda need to know the origins of how
we've used JavaScript on the web, right?
>> Sean: So I mean,
how do you use JavaScript in the browser?
There's really only two ways, that's it.
There's only two ways that you can use
JavaScript and load it in the browser.
>> Sean: And I mean,
JavaScript is just a script.
It's just top down bottom execution.
And as you can see here,
this is JavaScript.
It's just a script format,
it always has been up until lately.
Like I said, there's only two ways that
you can actually get this functionality
to work in the browser.
The first way is adding a script tag for
passing a source
attribute and
a reference to that JavaScript file.
And this is great, this is how we
leverage when were using Webpack today.
And the second way is actually this
write your job description to HTML,
JS and HTML that new thing,
have you heard of it?
No [LAUGH] It's been around forever but
you can do this.
But I mean, when you break it down,
so those are the only two ways.
What is a problem for these things?
It doesn't scale, whatsoever.
I mean, you're either gonna
have too many scripts that
you're trying to load from
script tags in the HTML.
And each browser actually has bottlenecks.
This creates a bottleneck.
There's only a certain amount of
concurrent requests that can fetch data at
a single time.
And so like breaking your application
into a 100 JavaScript files and
loading them in the browser is
a huge performance problem.
And some people might say, but Sean,
HTTP 2 will help, and not really.
Even if you had, let's say, 2,000,
the concurrent requests usually they say,
30 to 50, your application is
thousands and thousands of modules.
We're talking 3,000.
Companies like Airbnb and
Microsoft's Outlook web app,
they're talking 30,000 modules
to build their application.
And so it's just wild.
There is no way that you can have
a performance experience by trying to load
individual scripts.
I could beat that horse dead for days.
But then, you're like, well, Sean,
I'll just write one big one, right.
Who's worked on the 10,000 line global
back JS file that ships on every page?
Yeah, yeah!
So, I worked for
an eCommerce company called Hayneedle, and
that was my first
experience with JavaScript.
It was a single 10,000 plus
line file called global dot JS.
And of course,
these are all the things I struggle with.
Like endless, I remember
spending nights trying to debug,
why one function wasn't working to only
find out it was because I was knocking
out another variable that was at line
10 while I was working in line 9,000.
One of the quirks of JavaScript that
I think erks people coming from
different language ecosystems is that
we have this crazy idea for scoping.
Everything is global in its scope, but
you can also have things like first class
functions and so everything is global.
Your functions, your objects, and so
there's a lot of issues with just
scope and variable conflicts.
But this,
we solve things in the web ecosystem.
So what do we do?
Who knows what an IIFE is, IIFE?
Cool, that's a good start.
So an IIFE stands for
Immediately Invoked Function Expression.
Now what does this mean?
So take this code example here.
Now, essentially what's happening, is that
we have this function that's defined,
but it's wrapped in parentheses and
then, you'll see at the end it's called.
And so, what this does is
that when you have an IFFE,
it's treated as an expression and
instantly executed.
But it also allows us to provide
data from an outside scope and then,
return scoped information.
So in this case, if you were to write
this code in like your node terminal or
whatever in dev tools, you're gonna
see that whatever actually returns
properties on some, just like if it
was a module or some sort of object.
And that was the kinda goal here, right?
We want to be able to weigh to
encapsulate and that's what IFFES do.
So if you took this and you removed
the IFFE pieces, you would notice that,
if you ran this code,
you had a variable declared at the top.
So outer scope is equal to one, and
let's just pretend the IFFES not there.
Well, then you would define outer scope
inside of the function, which gives its
own function scope but then, that actually
knocks out the value in the outerScope.
So if I run console.log(outerScope),
I would find out that it returns 1.
So instantly,
you can see why if he solve big problems.
Now we can have the enterScope of that
variable with the same name as the outer
scope.
And it's all about having encapsulation.
So people started to,
instead shift their JavaScript,
but have individual files that
were wrapped in IIFEs, right.
And so that way, they could do things.
And this is not the only module pattern.
The revealing module pattern is just
one of a bajillion if you've ever read
the JavaScript design patterns.
There's me and Addie hanging out,
he's a good friend of mine.
And he's the author of this book, but
you'll notice that most of them are just
surrounded by the idea of using
encapsulation primitives of immediately
invoked function expressions.
But this let's us concatenate.
Now, we can take and write a hundred
files and we can squish them together
without concerns that we're gonna
knock out a bunch of variables and
scopes, and I put a star there
cuz there's always caveats.
However, and this really led to
the explosion of these toolings.
So we started seeing tools like Make.
Who's used Make on a JavaScript project?
I did that for
the first time in Microsoft Edge.
Edge is part of the operating system,
and so
our OS code base is
a 24 terabyte git repo.
And it used end make which is
our custom windows version but
I had that first experience with
trying to use make with JavaScript.
Boy, it was frustrating.
Really frustrating but
some people love it.
And really, all the purpose is is just
to concatenate the files together.
And that's what Grunt and Gulp and
Broccoli, like all these things.
That's where these tools
started cropping up.
It's trying to solve problems.
However, there's still problems with this.
What you're gonna notice that,
anytime you want to change one file,
you have to rebuild the whole thing.
We're just concatenating
all of these module.
They are not modules but
these scripts together.
And then, more importantly,
when you concat,
let's say, who uses Lodash here or
Moment JS?
All right, that's a huge library.
That's like one meg,
two megs of JavaScript,
maybe even three I can't remember.
JD will tell me when I get back to work.
But if you're just
concatenating files together,
how do you remove code that
you're actually not using?
How do you even know there's
code you're not using.
When you are in script there is no way.
You essentially fear only using
one function from Lodash or
one data utility from Moment JS.
You're literally adding
the entire library and
just crushing it together,
that turns out that.
Immediately both function
expressions are kinda slow.
So what happened, no one lost the news.
One of my coworkers and
author of Couch DB or
Couch TV, I can't remember.
He did a study and found out that
bundlers, this was specific to bundlers
early on, we're creating lots of
IFFE in using a similar pattern, or
people were writing in IIFE's and
concatenating together.
But what this does is,
it forces JavaScript engines to eager
parse the code, and so
you incur much more intensive or
costly parsing time when your
JavaScript's loading, so
it leads to slower loading apps.
And how do you lazy load
with a task runner?
You don't, well there is no way,
whatever you're building.
Your shipping all that
code down the pipeline,
even if your app maybe only uses 10% of it
to load and get your initial experience.
You can just kinda see there's
a lot of problems here.
We're just showing scripts together.